[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.]
I prefer. So you can begin when you're ready. Thank you very much. Good morning, everybody, and welcome to E450.

I'm glad you all are safe and healthy. Uh, let's spend about two minutes reviewing what we learned last time before me.

Moving on. We started, first of all, with a simple definition of a network.

And we said the network consists of multiple nodes, different types of nodes.

These, uh, circles here are referred to as the house orderly and systems.

And these square or rectangular nodes are referred to as routers.

These nodes are interconnected via transmission facilities such as fiber or copper or cable or satellite or microwave.

Old types of transmission facilities.

And the purpose of the network is to provide for the transfer of information and providing services to the end users or records.

Again, as I told you, if you look at this one and if you look at this one, they are not directly connected.

This one is connected to this router. This one is connected to this router.

And then what. And then the packets will follow the from one router to another router and so on.

And so. We looked at the separate, uh, concepts of the telephone network and the internet and the telephone network.

You need to set up, first of all, a physical circuit between A and B before you start the transmission of information.

Once the circuit is set, all the data will go through the same route.

It goes through the same circuit, and the circuit is reserved for the duration of the call.

L no matter how long your call takes, the circuit is therefore you.

The circuit will be taken away from you only when you're hanged up.

When you hang up. That's an indication that. Um.

That you do not require service anymore. You.

Excuse me. I want to show you one thing here.

Uh. That's now the internet.

How does the internet works? Let's we will look at this in detail shortly.

I just want to show you what what what do I mean by the intent?

What I wants to communicate with. Let's assume email.

The email was broken into. How many packets? Look at these.

Each one of them is packets, right?

The packets are counted. There is no need to set up a what?

A circuit. No need to set up a circuit. No need to set up a connection.

You have packets to transmit. Go ahead and transmit them.

But you need to make sure that every packet is addressed properly with two addresses.

The first one is called the source IP address. The second one is called destination IP address.

IP address is equivalent to a telephone number, just like a telephone number IP address.

Clear. So the message was broken into.

How many packets up for packets? The networking doesn't care.

Internet doesn't care that these four packets belong to the same message.

It doesn't care. It treats each packet as an individual independent unit by itself.

Clear in exactly the same way as when you send me four letters.

You need to create how many envelopes? Four envelopes on every envelope you need to put in the address.

You need to put a stamp, whatever the case might be. So the first packet comes in here.

What does he do? He stands a lot. Why he stand a lot?

Because there might be other packets from other.

He is not the only user. We have billions of views.

This packet. Stand in line until your turn comes.

The router decides by looking at the address and checking his table for routing table.

That's why we call it a router. A router has a routing table from the routing table.

He decides that he forward the packet to this, not to this route.

Then came the other packet questioned by these two packets.

Do they have the same addresses? These do these four packets.

Do they have the same pair of addresses?

Yes they do. Which is the source IP address, that's I gather.

They are identical, but the network doesn't care.

So for example, when packet number two came. This router decided to forwarded.

When three came he decided to forward it here. Now I want you to tell me what they received in order.

Look at the order. Look at the order they were transmitted.

What they received in order. They were not received an order.

It is the responsibility of the end host to put them back in order before delivering the email to the end user,

before delivering the email to the end user. The networking stack, as we will see shortly in detail, will reorder load packets.

Now are you following me so far? Everything is sent, nor reserved, nor reserved.

They don't charge you on the what? On the distance. They don't charge you on the duration.

They charge you on the what? On the volume. How many packets are you sent?

Clear sofa in router. You need to wait the line before your turn comes.

Wait the line before your turn comes. What does that result?

Result? An increase of delight and delight.

Just like you go to a movie. I you need to stand the light before you enter the theater.

Same thing here. Also. The delay will go up.

We will talk about the performance matrix.

In short question. Is it possible they are received in order?

Is it possible they are received in order? Most of the time it is that way most of the time, but there is no guarantee.

The internet does not guarantee you anything. The protocol that is used in the internet, which is IP.

He tells you what? I'm not going to guarantee anything. He does not.

They do not even guarantee delivery. Question.

Is it possible? Packet number four. Got to drop somewhere.

If he dropped means what it means it reached a buffer where the buffer is full.

There is no space to stand it. You follow me on.

What does the router do? Drop the bucket.

That's. He can't do the Outkast care.

They don't care. They don't give you any guarantee of delivery.

Now let's assume number three. What's lost?

Just an example. Dropped. Well, he received number three.

Or there will be a gap. Will there be a gap in the receiving packets?

Gap. Gap means what he received one for.

And what? Two? What will happen then?

We will study this shortly in detail. This one?

Well, I request this one to send him packet number three again.

He tells him send me packet number three again.

I did not receive it. There is a gap and packets one, four and two are not delivered to the user.

Are stored and don't know what packet number three comes.

Put them back in order and then what delivery to the end user.

All of this done where at the end orders.

Not in the internet. Not in the router. Routers do not care.

Did you follow me, everybody? That's Ethan.

Is that a reliable service or unreliable?

It's unreliable service. But do we complain?

Do we complain? We the end user. We rarely complain.

When do we complain? We complain only when we feel that the internet is heavily congested.

Why? Because the wait will be too long.

It will be irritating. So, for example, I want to download a certain file and it's taking too long.

Why is it taking too long? Because your packets are not the only packets.

You have to stand your line. So during, for example, busy hours, a lot of packets in this internet and you have to wait a lot.

The end user will feel the light will get a little bit irritated.

Other than that, we don't complain. We don't complain.

I we stay in front of our screen for an hour on the average, browsing the web, getting information and so on.

So as long as we wait, as long as we don't pay for the duration, we don't pay for the distance.

And again, as I told you, we as a customers, regular customers, me and you.

We get what? Fixed charges? Almost fixed charges, regardless of the volume.

Why? Because they do not expect us to generate they.

Who is they? When I say they are they? They as the ISP, the internet service provider.

The one who will carry our traffic. They do not expect too many packages generated by us.

So they don't care about what? Counting on money packets.

One. Two. Three. Four. Five. They don't care. They don't.

We don't generate that many. But big corporations or educational institutes like you, I see.

And so on and so forth. They have meters. I use me meters to count.

How many? What? How many packets are they generating? And every time they go over, they charge them more.

Clear they charge on the book. Now, we'll get to that in just a second.

I just wanted to show you this. And I want you from now to understand.

What do I mean by connection less. Connection less means what?

Unlike the telephone network, where we need to set up a real physical connection between A and B, there is no connection in here.

Exactly the same way as the mail service. You send me a letter.

Do you need to contact me? You don't need to contact me.

You create the envelope. You put an address, put it in the mailbox.

Good bye. The mailman who is the realtor, will come pick up the mail delivered from one office to another office until it comes to me.

That is the purpose of the. Or. That is the concept of the intent.

And that is the one that we are interested in.

No, not the telephone network. Clear telephone network is much more reliable.

No comparison. But the problem with the telephone network is that they do not give us enough what resources to support all types of application,

especially those applications that require a huge amount of capacity, huge amount of bandwidth, like big data.

Like what? Like video, like 4K TV and so on.

So all of this requires a huge amount of bandwidth, telephone network data logic.

Tell you what, we are a network that were designed primarily for what voice you want to make a voice call.

You don't need that much bandwidth. We give you a little bit, just a little bit for the voice.

Did you get it, everyone? Oh, we'll get to that later on.

I just wanted to show it to you from the beginning so that you get the idea.

Uh, what is happening? Then we back to our review.

Yes, sir. Also downside of rights.

Your vote splits. What's what's the downside of a telephone?

What is the downsides? Yeah. Downside like.

What's bad about it compared to what is bad is that they don't give you enough bandwidth and they telephone all what they give you is this.

Is as good or bad or ugly.

You tell me. No, it's not bad. It's ugly. Ugly means what?

It cannot support, by the way, K bits per second.

K stands for what? A thousand? Yes, bits per second.

Imagine. Listen to the white fight that you do at home.

The white fight that you do at home can support the new generation can support 200mbps plus.

Look at this and look at this. So if you tell me, listen to this.

Just to make it clear to the gentleman, if you tell me, professor, I updated the Wi-Fi at home to the latest generation, and I get, what, 500mbps?

And then I ask you, what type of connection do you have to your ISP?

You tell me. I have a dial up connection. This is a dial up connection.

I tell you what. You need to check into what?

Into a medical facility or something. There is something wrong with you.

Why? Because even though this is so fast, this will be the bottleneck.

You understand the concept of a bottleneck. A bottleneck is the weakest link.

So if you are not supporting your WIP by supporting 200 to 500mbps and you are on a dialup connection.

It means what? You are not going to be downloading any video.

Any data. Only what? Only what?

Only bots. This is enough for bots. Or maybe a couple of files, short bio and so on.

You know this webcast, anybody, by the way, seen the webcast?

By the way, even if you attended, what if you attend the class life?

It doesn't hurt to see the webcast. At least see the webcast.

It cannot be supported at 64 second.

It cannot. Which means what if you are watching the webcast?

You will only hear me talking, but you will not see a what a picture I cannot support.

Other than that, telephone network is perfect.

It's perfect. Why? Resources? Are reserved for you.

Who doesn't like that? Who doesn't like that? So, are you telling me?

I'm going to give you a resource reserved for you only.

Nobody else can use it. You only you will think what?

Top of the line. But then they tell you what. This is all what you get.

Clear. Clear. Oh, good. Now then we went into what?

Into three, uh, types of software that we are going to be dealing with.

And we referred to them as client servers. And per client is a piece of software that requests services at server.

It's a piece of software that provide services appear on the other hand kind of provide services and request services.

We went through different applications, and we saw that each one of these applications have different requirements.

Some application cannot tolerate delay. What applications do not tolerate delay?

Real time application. Real time application cannot tolerate the light.

A delay becomes irritating like waterboys or three minute videos and so on.

So for real time, let's not tolerate delay.

Other than that, for example web browsing or email or something like that, they cannot tolerate wide losses.

Some application requires a huge throughput. We will define what you mean by throughput shortly, like videos and so on.

So some of them cannot tolerate jitter. Bank jitter is delay variation which means what I send you the four packets.

Remember the four packets one packet will be delayed.

Let's say one second. Another packet will be delay.

Then second third one will be delayed two millisecond and so on, so forth.

And although the delay is not the same, which means when the receiver receives the what receives the packets, he needs to buffer them.

And then what? Replay again at a constant rate.

Replay. Again. Clear. Otherwise, as I told you last time, if you have Netflix.

Not. Not now. It's almost perfect. Netflix.

Before original Netflix, you are watching a movie and suddenly you get one.

You get to this loading thing. They are loading.

Are you follow me or not? Why? Because they are. Using the internet, which means what they have standalone.

Okay. So all of these Eddie the application could be unicast.

Unicast means what. 1 to 1 or multicast one to many like games and so on so forth a broadcast and so on.

So always remember broadcasting is not allowed in the internet.

Broadcasting is allowed on your network or some other network, but not across the internet.

If the architecture could be different, as we'll see in just a second.

But they all have something in common. What do they have when they are transmitted?

They do look like white packets. You will not be able to tell whether it's a voice packet, or whether it's a white data packet,

or whether it's a video packet, a packet, it's an envelope.

All what you see is that number. By the way, shortly we would see the packets need not be of the same length.

They are short packets. They are what long packet.

They don't need to be of the same length. Clear. Oh, but they all have something in common.

Which is which? They are all going to be served or transported, supported by a single shared network public network referred to as the internet.

They are all going to be transmitted over the internet regardless of the application.

Now remember when you created a network application, you need to.

You need to write programs to run in the end systems not in the one and the routers.

The application do not run in the core elements.

It run only the. Because again, imagine every time you develop an application, you need to go all over the world and put it into a router.

Of course, a router is a mailman, and mailman doesn't care about what is inside the envelope.

He only cares about what the address on the envelope.

What is inside the envelope. He doesn't care. Clear.

Same idea in here. So we don't need to write the software thing.

We went through different architecture.

So let's look at the client server architecture again.

Server it means always worked on.

You cannot turn off your server. You turn off your server.

The clients cannot communicate with this server, so it's always up.

It has to have a permanent IP address a permanent IP address.

Now you might tell me, professor, who assigns this permanent IP address for that to that server or to that router.

Router by the way, have permanent IP addresses and servers have permanent IP addresses.

Just one comment here. Your router at home might not have a permanent IP address.

Your router at home. Why? So when we talk about routers have permanent IP addresses.

I am talking about routers in the internet not your router at home.

I need you to understand. Just because the name is a router does not mean they are all the same.

Your router at home is like a box of chocolate.

How big is it? It's a box of chocolate. Routers in the internet are cabinet.

Cabinet. It's like your kitchen cabinet or your closet and so on, so forth.

Clear your routers at home might not have a permanent IP address.

Routers in the internet have permanent IP address servers.

Needs to have permanent IP address. You might tell me who assigns it.

I'm the owner of the company. For example, at USC, the IT department.

They have the responsibility of assigning permanent IP addresses.

To the way to their servers. Now, you might tell me, professor, how do they get.

How do the I get IP address get.

We will talk about that shortly. They get it from your ISP.

ISP is the one that will give you what block of IP addresses.

And then what? Internally, the IT department will assign what IP addresses to the servers permanently.

Again, why it is permanently. It's because so that the client can always be able to access a given server.

If think about if if I am a server and if I keep changing my IP address, how are you going to keep track of it?

How are you going to keep track of. You will need what? And the server needs to have a permanent IP address.

Data center for scale. Let me show you what that data center look like prematurely, so that you understand what I'm talking about.

You see this data? It looks like a library.

Does it look like a library to you? Yes. It is. Huge buildings across the globe.

The. We'll talk about Netflix in a minute. When they needed the help of Amazon.

Amazon have all of these distributed across the globe.

They call them what data centers? All of these DC, all of these cabinets.

All of these are servers.

And every physical server is actually virtualized, which means what you create multiple virtual machines within the same physical server.

Within the same physical server, you are creating multiple virtual machines and so on.

That's how they scale. That is how they scale their operations.

Clear. So scaling is done. We'll get to that in a minute.

Is scaling well done using data center. Clients.

On the other hand, they don't need to have what IP addresses.

Their IP addresses are dynamically assigned.

What does dynamically assigned mean? Exactly the same as least.

Right now you are living in an apartment. Is the apartment yours or you leasing it?

You are leasing it. Let's assume you are leasing it for a year.

After the year is over. Get. Can you request extending the lease?

Yes you can. Can the owner refuse your request?

Yes he can. If you are allowed the obnoxious, you don't pay in time.

And so on, so forth. He or she will tell you what. No, we don't renew the lease.

IP addresses are the same thing. Leasing.

So, for example, you came to this room. The class time is two hours.

It's two hours. You are able to access the web right now.

How? They assign you IP address for how many hours?

Two hours. Because they believe that after the two hours is gone, you are going to leave the classroom and another set of students will come.

The other set of students will what will be assigned IP.

And then once you leave this room, you don't need the what the IP address anymore.

Clear who does that? A specialized server that we'll talk about shortly, which it's called what?

DHB. Uh, excuse me.

The Acpi stands for Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol.

It's a protocol. It's an application protocol. Its function is to assign you IP addresses when you demand.

When do you demand? When does the client needs an IP address?

He needs an IP address only when he wants to communicate across the network.

If you are not communicating across a network, if you have a standalone PC, I have a standalone PC at home.

I don't use it, but it's standalone. I don't need an IP address for.

When do I need an IP address for IP address? You need it only when you want to communicate with the rest of the world.

Clear? Oh. Clients do not communicate with each other, and there is no point in them communicating with each other, right?

None of them can provide what services?

None of them can provide services. So in the client server architecture, for example, in your machine, the client software is running.

What is the client software? It's your browser your web browser that is a client software.

Who is he talking with? He is talking with a web server.

Let's assume google.com. It's a well-served web server.

They talk now. Are they running in different machines?

Yes they are. They are running in different machines.

So how do they communicate? They communicate.

Oh thank you dear. They communicate via protocols.

That's the TCP IP that I was telling you about in the first lecture.

They come in, they understand the language. They understand the language.

The web browser and the web server understand that even though they are running in different machine,

your web browser could be on a laptop or on a what, an iPad or whatever the case might be, and the web server is on a bigger machine and so on.

So but they are still able to communicate with each other because they use the same set of protocols.

A peer to peer. On the other hand, we don't need a server that is always on.

We don't need a server that is always on. But that is only the case when you know where your peer is.

If you know if this one, know that this one it's peer, then you can what?

You can communicate directly without involvement of a server.

He can request server since he can't provide server since he cannot request services.

He cannot provide services. Did you follow me or not?

The question then become what if you don't know who your parents?

You don't know. We are here at. I the example I showed you last time we had a what?

A centralized directory server. This is not a DNS.

Remember DNS stands for what domain name system.

That's it system that translate a hostname to an IP address.

That's not a Diana Rigg just a directory server. It's always on a server needs to be always on.

Now what is where is involved? Every one of them.

To Bob and Alice and other people. They sent him a list of, let's say, files or videos that they own.

Bob tells them why I have this video. It's video and it's not the actual video.

It just a what a menu, a menu, a list of videos that they had.

So he sent them this, this once. And now if it's looking for a specific video, she will ask the server, does anyone who registered with you it?

Does anyone have visited you? They tell them what? Yes Bob has.

So she established connectivity with Bob. This is totally out of the picture, totally out of the picture and other they are not involved.

The server is not involved with the contact with the actual video.

They just provide you with the what a list of if she knows Bob already.

No need for this. Clear.

And we will again, we'll talk about the peer to peer model shortly and more detail.

The third model that we looked at last time, it is what is what is referred to as the cloud computing model.

Cloud compute. Companies decided that they don't have the capability to scale very fast.

They don't have the right I.T. department. They are not able to manage their what their data and so on and so forth.

Here come big companies, which are the big company, the Google, the the Amazon and so on and so forth into Facebook and so on and so forth.

All of these, they have huge data centers located across the globe,

and they took on the responsibility of the cloud to provide to you these companies, the cloud provider, we call them the cloud providers.

They took the responsibility of providing you the services that you request, and you pay only when you use them, which means it becomes a what?

A utility. Just like an electricity or water, you pay for electricity and water.

The more you use, the more you pay. The less you use, the less you pay.

You follow me so far is a cloud provider and they allow the user the capability of what?

Smoothly adding what? Adding resources or reducing resources?

Depends on the size. Depends on the need of the season.

Are you following? Well, none. So, for example, let's assume Netflix had a new movie.

It wants to distribute to a large number of locations very quickly.

It's a new movie. You follow me or not?

During that time, they request more services or more resources from Amazon, from Amazon.

During that, after a while they might say, what?

No, we don't need. So it depends. Or for example, tax preparation fees.

When you are preparing your taxes mid April or something like that, accountant will be heavily, heavily overloaded with what with work and stuff.

They use the cloud and your software during that season.

After that, no, it goes down. You don't have to pay.

So we saw last time that there are different types of cloud models.

The first one is called say hey S has a S stands for Service Authority Software as a service and software as a service.

They develop the software, not you. Another way in software as a service.

You don't develop anything. You just need to pay. That is software as a service.

Most of the software is what? Business oriented, the customer relationships management, email like Gmail and so on and so forth.

From the user point of view. What are you getting from? You avoid the cost of installation on your own server.

You don't need to install it on your own server.

You don't have to worry about that. You don't have to worry about management.

You don't have to worry about upgrading every time a new version come.

You don't have to worry about upgrade. They will do that. They will do that.

Most of the software as a service.

One of the biggest companies is called salesforce.com.

And again, as I told you last time, they do hire students from USC during the summer.

So please do check them out if they have other opportunities.

P. S. Platform as a service. Notice, by the way, in here the user does not have access in order.

He cannot see the platform or the infrastructure.

You cannot see them. What can you see here? The user.

The user. You can see only the application. You can see only the application.

You have no idea what the platform that it runs into.

Why the software? It's not yours. So what do you care?

You follow me or not? You don't see it. Here.

Platform as a service. Any platform as a service.

You develop the application. You use the user.

You develop the application. But they will provide you with your what?

With a platform. You can see the platform.

You can see you can choose which platform your application is going to run.

You can see you through your what through your browser.

But you will not be able to see the what the infrastructure.

Infrastructure is the what is the back end? Clearly you will not be able to see that.

You will be able to see the platform clear. An example is Azure or Google App Engine and so on and so forth.

Another one is the infrastructure as a service, infrastructure as a service.

You can actually see the what.

The infrastructure, the computing, the networking, the storage and so on, so databases and so on.

So you can actually pick and choose.

You can pick and choose. And we'll see in just a second you can pick and choose that.

It's called the infrastructure as a service, an example of which is the Amazon uh web services that we'll talk about in just a second.

What is the what is this what what benefits is this one giving you?

You don't need to worry about servers. You don't need to worry about what?

Managing the servers. Physical server. You don't need to worry about that.

You don't worry about weight management. And you only need to.

What? You only need to ask them. I need that many resources.

I need that many resources. And it's elastic.

You see. Elastic. What does elastic mean?

Flexible. You can what? You can ask more.

You can ask what for less. Throw your browser.

Clear. Oh, right. Now I, by the way, look at the layout.

This is the front. And that's the back end application, the platform and the what?

And the infrastructure in here. Clear.

You studied the the the the layout architecture and just.

This is the data center that I was telling you about. I want you to understand again one more time, elastically, so you can expand.

Or you can what contract contract means what reduce?

Expand means what increase? It's a paper use.

Pay per views per use. Did you get it or not?

Pay per view. It's infrastructure on demand. You demand more, they give you more, and so on.

Multi-tenancy. What is multi-tenancy mean? Uh, millions of customers are sharing.

What? Sharing these resources. Multiple independent users.

Where you provide the cloud provider claim that they provide you with what?

Resource isolation.

So even if your applications are running on the same physical machine but utilizing different virtual machines, they will provide you with what?

Isolation so that your resources will not. What do not.

There is no security breach and so on, so forth. I don't know what what other users and so on now.

Oh, oh, uh, who handled the cost and other who is responsible for pay is shared and the infrastructure

is all shared because every customer will pay what his share or share of whatever they use.

Clear. Oh, no. And then you can use again the cloud.

I want you to see this. Everything is running on the cloud.

Shopping. The application documents, photos, videos, music and so on and so forth.

All of these types of applications running in the cloud.

This one is an interesting curve. I want you just to see it.

Uh, actually it's a little bit outdated, but you can see.

Do you see this one? This car. Oh, sorry.

This curve first. This curve. This one is accessing the cloud services from your desktop.

From your desktop. Which means what? Wired connection.

Wired connection. Ethernet. Whereas this one is what.

Accessing the resources via what? Your mobile device, your your smartphones on whatever.

Which one is growing faster. This one is much faster than this one.

This one is actually what it's actually saturating.

What is one is growing much faster. This is like about ten years ago or so.

And so but it's it's quite clear. Okay.

Now, I think I showed you this last time when you hear the cloud, there are two sets of cloud.

There is a network of cloud and there is the computing cloud.

The cloud computing cloud.

When you hear the word networking cloud, these are your ISP, your AT&T, your bar isn't your T-Mobile, your spectrum cable, and so on.

So they are not involved in generating the content.

They do not generate the content. So what do they provide?

They provide connectivity. They provide connectivity.

They provide what? Transformation facilities to take your packet from the user, with the user to the walk to the corporate.

You're caught for it again, datacenters and so on and so forth, like Amazon and so on.

So clear. Oh. So let's take a simple case, uh, study case so that we understand how how it is.

Uh, how does this one works? And let's look at Netflix.

Netflix wasn't what it created when they created Netflix, which in late 2000, 2008, 2007 around that area,

around that time, their business watch what videos they mail you in the mail they Malibu videos.

And in other words, they were competing actually with what with stores, retail stores that you can go and get video.

They are always they are in the business of renting videos.

But they are like they realized very quickly that this business is not going to what is not going to be sustainable.

It's not going to be sustainable. It's not going to generate huge revenues.

So they needed to change their what their architecture.

But they did not have the capability of reaching a large number of customers across the globe.

They did not have their data center.

Their own data center was actually based on Oracle databases that failed once in a while, and once it fails, their business goes down.

Their employees were all software minded.

They were able to work to design the application, but they had no idea.

They had no idea how to distribute the video.

They don't have the footprint to distribute those videos all over the world.

At the beginning. By the way, the videos they did not generate Netflix did not generate the video,

the videos they took from other content providers like Disney or Dreamworks or whatever,

all the companies that we see, Paramount or Universal and so on and so forth.

The movies were not there is not original content, they just what?

Random videos? They do. They realize that they are not going to.

What? They are not going to sustain. This is not that sustainable.

Uh, business plan. They did not have the what?

The person up to handle all of these things. They wanted to focus only on the software and let somebody else handle what?

All the other functions. Let and let them handle somebody.

So what did they choose? They choose Amazon Web Services.

Now you might say, professor, why didn't they choose, for example, Microsoft Azure or Google App and so on and so forth.

Amazon had what huge amount of processing power.

You follow me on that. Amazon started, by the way, with what? With books and and then what they started to what build up built up its footprint.

So they had massive amount of sensing power storage power data centers across the globe.

Unlike Microsoft Azure or Google App. I had a Google engine at that time, I backed that.

So Netflix picked up the phone and called. What?

Amazon. And they told them, we want to run our software.

Our software. Who developed the software? Who developed the software?

Netflix developed the software, not Amazon.

We want to. We want you to host our software on your machines.

On your machines. Amazon. By the way Amazon at that time, they were not in the video streaming business.

They were not in the business. Prime video was not there yet.

Amazon was delighted. Hey, you are going to pay millions of dollars.

You pay. They pay. So what did they do?

Uh, Netflix. They use em.

Let me show you the the. They use Amazon's tools storage.

They call it S3. S3 stands for simple.

Simple. Storage.

Service. They use EC2.

Which is elastic. Compute.

Cloud. First of all, it's simple storage service for storage capabilities.

Thousands and thousands of terabytes worth were what they were able to store it on S3.

EC2 computing transcoding.

What was it transcoding? Me transcode.

Once Netflix decided to get into the video streaming business, the video streaming business,

they needed to generate different video formats of the same program,

of the same movie, or of the same TV show, but it's a different what format depending on the what depending on the user.

Equipment. Whether you are you, whether you are looking at Netflix through your work,

your smartphone or your iPad or your desktop or your laptop or your game consoles and or support each one require different format of the video.

Netflix did not know anything about generating what.

Different formats of the video. They ask AWS, EC2, which is the Elastic Compute Cloud.

They told them what generate this video for us, generate different types of videos for us.

They use another one, which this diagram does not show you.

Aurora. This is a database.

Towards. All of these, by the way, are integrated.

All of them are integrated within the what? Within Amazon Web Services.

Within Amazon Web Services. They are integrated with.

So I'm gonna start doing all of these things on their machines and so on and so forth.

Netflix. They said what? We have another problem.

How are we going to deliver these video streams to the end users?

How? We need to have a what a big global footprint to allow us to stream videos to customers across the globe.

Across the globe. We cannot do it. I, Madame, was not in the business.

Of what? Delivering the content. And that's on what's in the delivery?

In the business of what? Generating what different format types, storing them and so on.

So. So what did Netflix do?

It contracted what? It's known as what?

CB and we learned a new acronym today.

CBN. Stands for what?

Content? Delivery.

Networks. Content delivery networks.

They are networks. They do not generate the content.

They just what? Deliver it. These companies include.

Akamai technologies include. Limelight technologies include level three networks and so on and so forth.

These are big companies, by the way. They have nothing to do with Netflix.

These are what these are independent companies. And they I want you to see they are sort of.

Huh? Know what is. Yeah.

They have CTN servers in South America and Europe and Asia and so on and so forth all over the place.

Now, do they charge Netflix? They charge Netflix.

Netflix was paying them a huge amount of money to deliver the content to the customer.

Netflix says what's going on? It's not going to work.

We are paying them a huge amount of money. Why don't we generate our own seed and our own seed and the content delivery network, our own seed?

They did. They came up with what is known as Netflix Open connect.

Network Netflix. Open. Connect. Open.

Connect. The next question is what?

Where do we place our appliances?

By the way, what is an appliance? An appliance is a Netflix server.

That caches all the videos that are generated by hook by W.S., A.W. and generate the video format.

And then what? Netflix take it to those appliances.

So the next question for Netflix what's what? Where do we put these appliances?

Where do we put these appliances? At the beginning.

They put the appliances. Do you see this appliance, by the way?

It looks like a small box,

but it's actually what it's actual capable of storing or catching thousands and thousands of videos in every one of these boxes you might have.

What a complete Netflix library and. They said, what does Netflix where do we put?

At the beginning. They put them at the edge of the ISP, at the edge of the ISP, and they at the peering point.

When you see the word peering point means what?

The point where they exchange information at the peering point, and then the ISP carry them all the way through the act to the customer.

Did you follow me or not? Did you follow me or not?

They said what? We can do better. They contracted with the ISP.

They told them, we need to put our our means.

What? Netflix, our appliances within your data centers,

within the ISP data center so that the video stream does not have to go through what the entire what the entire network of the ISP,

they make it the closer to the what. To the end user.

Which means what? When the end user requests downloading a certain video.

You don't have to go through what transit networks to download the what the video.

The video will be downloading very close to you because Netflix positioned or placed the what the appliance appliances deep into the ISP network.

Clear. And nobody pays the other anything.

Netflix provided the appliances for free.

Another works. Netflix is telling the ISP, we will give you our uplink.

I remember when you heard about what appliance this is. What? Caching.

Servers? Caching. What is? Catch me?

Cache means what? Temporary memory I movies.

By the way, if you do have Netflix, you will see sometimes on when you get the menu you will see.

Sometimes it says what just added or will leave soon.

In other words, they are not permanent. It depends on what depends on the user whether they are interested in these kind of movies or not.

So they call it what caching servers. Netflix told the ISP we will give you the appliances for free.

You just need to wait. You just need to download the video stream to the customer.

Which is benefit for both the ISP and the what.

And Netflix. What you might say, what is the ISP is getting out of it?

The customers want to get video streams at a very high quality.

The closer the what the appliance to the customer, the quality of the video becomes much better.

Why? Because you are not going to be encountering large Goliath.

Did you get it or not? It's very close to the customer. That does not have to go through the transit networks here.

So from the ISP point of view, they get a lot more customers because most customer customers right now,

they have in excess of 250 million Netflix, 250 million customers across more than 200 or 50 countries in the world.

You follow me on? They contract the Netflix with the ISP.

They told them why we give you the appliances for free.

You're just need to worry about what the cooling, the air conditioning, whatever the heating and so on.

Support and what and you provide provided the video stream.

ISP said what? Okay, by the way, some ISP are fighting Netflix currently and Netflix is resisting some ISP.

Tell them what? No, you need to pay us money. More money for the video streams.

For the video streams, we are providing you with service.

Netflix is trying to resist that. Of course they want to minimize their cost.

They are operation cost. Clear. Super clear.

Super. Oh. So currently, again, as I told you, most of the Netflix appliances are what are within the what within the ISP, very close to the customer.

See this one? This one is on the edge, which means what it has to go through the ISP is until it reaches this.

This one is on at the it. Clear?

No. Then what Netflix needs is more from Amazon Web Services.

One more from Amazon Web Services. They what they get what is known as a cloud.

Front network. This is.

Actually call it the cloud front network. This is not to do what the network that will provide you with the actual video stream.

This network deals with what backend stuff like for example, subscription user subscriptions,

management interfaces and machine learning algorithms and data analytics to try to study images when you see menus and so on and so forth.

Who is providing those? Who is providing those?

It's Amazon CloudFront network. They have what he ordered.

Distribution of the data center for non video traffic, not video.

Not the actual video stream but images taking what taking machine learning algorithms to work to figure out what is the user interest?

You follow me or not? What is the user? What are you interested in? What kind of will be targeting those?

Getting information about what kind of interfaces you have?

What kind of equipment you have at home that you are using to watch Netflix, and so on and so forth, management and so on and so forth.

All of these, they were taken, all of this responsibility were taken off from the CD and from the.

Network open contract, allowing Netflix to concentrate only on what developing right now.

They developed their own original content.

If you look at how many of you have Netflix. Nobody has not.

Oh, most of the program. They are original content. They they they generate the content.

Clear. By the way, when I say they generate. They created.

By the way, Netflix created a virtual studio.

At Amazon. They created a virtual set at Amazon, and they allow all the artists and the innovators across the globe to collaborate,

to collaborate using a virtual studio.

Why do we call it virtual a studio? Is it a real studio?

It's not a real schedule. It's running Amazon virtual machines clear, but it allows what artists from all over the world to collaborate from,

for example, from the Far East, from South America, from Africa, and so on and so forth.

They collaborate. What what does Amazon get out of these?

Amazon get what, billions and billions and billions of dollars that enabled it enabled Amazon to create.

They are what they they're huge data centers which are located across the globe.

Who pays for it? Uh, and Netflix is paying for.

But Amazon has the what has the capability of running?

Netflix does not have to worry about what managing servers do not have.

I by the way, if you look at Netflix, the number of employees they have is around 1000.

And so which means what to think about it. It's not a huge what is not a huge company with a large number of employees,

but all of them are what are concentrating on what generating content and then what

huge bandwidth to distribute this content to the end user without having to wait,

without having to contract these third companies, these independent companies, you ask somebody to deliver something for you you need to pay for.

Now and Amazon when they went and when and Netflix said and use a CloudFront network to provide for the back end I think is seamless.

Why? Because all of it belong to Amazon. So Amazon is what generating what different types of video,

different kind of videos using their easy to they store it using their what S3 they deliver

all of these back end functionality using front the front the cloud to front network.

All of them belong to Amazon, so it's what seamless operation cost.

You don't need to pay something. These and these services are all integrated together.

Clear. Netflix concentrated on what concentrated on the delivery of the what of the video streams.

If you have Netflix right now, rarely you see the what.

This is the sidelines and very rarely, very rarely you see why?

Because the delivery is coming from a data center, from an appliance located in a data center, very close to the very close to the customer.

You don't have to go through what you don't have to go through the transit.

Uh, I mean, you don't have to go through the transit.

Uh. A transit. Uh, networks.

So this is just a diagram. So this is your your multimedia player.

Different types of players here. For example, this one is Silverlight where this is Netflix data center.

This is the Amazon cloud. By the way do you see these servers.

What do you notice on the servers or the storage. What do you notice written on it?

Netflix servers. Do they belong to Netflix?

They belong to Amazon. But what do they hold?

They hold Netflix or they do everything. And not like.

Generally they hold it in here. So when you click in, when you are clicking, for example, a play, what does it do?

And this one will take you to the closest. CD to the closest CD, and from the way from the information that they are going to get from you.

They will be able to figure out which data center is close to you so that they download the video stream, all from those samples.

Clear. And it comes from behemoth. Netflix right now is huge, you know.

Do they have competitors? Of course I don't have competition.

They have Disney. They have its own. All of them are competitors with each other clear of.

But they have what they are YouTube and so on, so forth.

But actually Netflix right now is in the front.

So yeah. And they again, as I told, they did not wait too long to figure out what to figure out that they are old model.

It's not going to scale. It's not going to scale. They needed to change the model.

Okay, now we will look at other case studies as we move along through the course so that you can see it very clear.

Now let's look at the components. What makes a computer and networking computer?

I have again it's I told you I about standalone PC at home.

It's not a network computer. It's just a computer.

What makes a networked computer? What makes a network computer is two types the software and the hardware.

Now always remember this software. Look at me.

The software runs over the hardware. The software is on the top.

The hardware is on the bottom. When you are transmitting, the message will go from the software to the hardware.

When you are receiving the message, you will go up.

From where? From the hardware to the software.

Did you get it? We will get that next time when we studied the layered architecture.

We have three pieces of network software.

The first one which is most important network operating system and or S and S transport network operating system.

Notice. By the way, even if you are not a network computer, you still need an operating system.

You need a piece of software that will manage the central processing unit, the CPU, the IoT devices, the memory.

Who is going to manage those? We need what is referred to as an operating system here.

In addition to these functionalities, we need to worry about shared resources.

We need to worry about security issues. Why? Because the resources are open to anyone.

To anyone on the network. Clear. So what do we have as the network operating system?

Monitor the network resources and so on. So there are many network operating system.

We are only going to be interested in our course on the Unix Linux network operating system.

This, we are not going to get into it. This is what I told you.

It's six. For auto widget operating system call.

I don't need to repeat how important this course is, but it's not an easy code.

This is not an easy call. 450 is not hard. This is a hard class.

Requires a lot of time. But this is you take courses that will benefit you.

Not that it is easy to get an A, so you get an A.

So what? What you need to what you need to improve your knowledge.

So we are not going to get into the software. Then we do have the.

What? Uh, the client software. This is called the shell.

The redirect or the requester? This is a piece of software that will decide whether the request is for network resources or for local resources.

If I have a PC that is connected to the network, that's not mean that I only use network resources.

I can also use what local resources clear local resources.

If I use local resources, that client software will direct me to the white, to the local resources.

Clear. But if I want to use network resources, I need another set of protocols, which is called what the networking protocol.

And this is what we are going to be interested in. This is a protocol stack.

We call them stack. What is that stack?

And when you go to a department store or something, you see the clothes are what are assembled in stacks and so on.

So this protocol stacks such as TCP, IP, which are the uh, open internet, uh, uh, protocol suite.

There are other suites. They are all proprietary.

You understand what what is the opposite of open?

Opposite of open is a proprietary windows for example, is what proprietary software?

Windows. Right. Unix on the other hand, or Linux is what is open.

We are going to be only interested in. And that's all.

What I'm trying to tell you is that there are other networking protocols that clear all of this, but we are only going to be interested.

This is the only piece that we will introduce in this course.

This is the only piece which is the networking protocol.

How do we prepare our message? Remember the example I just showed you?

We took a message. We broke it. Into what? Into packets.

Oh, how do we do that? You follow me on that.

That is the functionality of the networking protocol application.

I'm sorry. The networking protocol suite. Now, what is the hardware?

So we go into the software, then the hardware. What is the hardware?

The hardware. Is the network interface.

Scott. Nick. Nick. This is how it looks like.

That's a Nick. Nick. You follow me on that?

It's a card. Network interface card.

Clear that is the hard way. Sometimes they call it.

What? Adapter card. Adapter card.

These are the same terminal adapter card or network interface card.

Same thing. Same meaning. Clear these cards.

Are not what we say. So, for example, if you do have a computer that has only an Ethernet card, you cannot connect it to a what a Wi-Fi network.

You cannot. These cards are not compatible for every technology.

You need a what? A separate card. Luckily for us, when you buy a what?

When you buy a computer or a laptop,

whatever it comes with what many of what network cards depend on whether you want to connect your network to a what to uh,

uh, Ethernet or to a what a wife. How many of you at home have Ethernet cable?

If you do understand, you can connect your laptop to the white to the Ethernet port of your router.

And this is especially beneficial if you want to download huge amount of what huge amount of data and big files and so on and so forth.

Because the Ethernet is more reliable than what?

Than white light and faster. Did you get it or not?

But you need Ethernet cable. You need an Ethernet cable.

Clear. Oh, good. We will get to that shortly in detail.

So where are these? So remember the software runs over the hardware.

The software control the hardware. But on the bottom where is the hardware connected to the hardware.

What? Use copper cables. Question.

Did you hear something? Huh? Was that a question?

No question. I heard something. I heard somebody talking.

Anyway. That's fine. Uh, I'm getting old a little bit, so, uh.

These networking cards communicate with sending and with signal sending signals through the media.

What is the medium? I want you to look at this. These are all fibers.

You follow me on this one coaxial cable.

Yes. This one. Radio.

White Wi-Fi radio antenna. Yes.

Pigeon. It's a joke. Our our our author.

Have nice sense of humor. Pigeon sending messages didn't get the message.

Like Game of Thrones, and so it's always clear so far.

Yes or no. Okay. Now. Premature.

Premature statement. Every dose, every one of these cards are identified.

Sorry, not or is identified by a uniquely global address called the Mac address.

You follow me so far? This is a premature statement because we are going to get into it very shortly in detail.

But I want you to get at the concept one. A mac address is a real physical address burned into your cart.

So when you purchase the card, the Mac address is burned into your card.

You cannot change it and it is portable.

What is portable mean? If I have a PC in L.A. and I move to New York, I take my PC with me.

The Mac address is not going to change.

Did you get it or not? It's portable. God's with me.

Unlike the IP address, IP address is not portable.

Which means what? You move from one location to another location your IP address needs to what needs to change.

Did you get it so far or not? Did you get it? Mac addresses.

It's a flat addresses. What is a flat meet?

If you tell me. What is your Mac address?

I will tell you what. So. Which means what?

What do I get out of it? I have no idea which network you are connected to.

Because it identifies the Nic card only.

If that's not identified, the host and it does not identify the network to which the host is connected to.

Did you get it? Did you get it? IP address.

If you give me your IP address. Assuming it's a public IP address, you might say what other type of IP address?

We have what is known as a private IP address. We'll talk about private IP address shortly.

If you give me your public IP address I will be able to figure out which network you are connected to.

Of course not immediately, but searching. You follow me on not.

I can search which network you are connected to. If you give me your IP address.

Clear. You give me your address. Doesn't mean anything to me.

Clean software. Clean. Super good Mac addresses are physical addresses.

You cannot change it and they are burned into your what?

Into your car. If you change your Mac address means what you change your cut clear.

Now all of this, by the way, is premature, but I need you to get a brief idea about it.

Before we get into the detail. Mac addresses have local significance only.

What does that mean? If I want to communicate with the Google server, I need only the IP address of the Google server.

I don't need the Mac address of the Google server.

Did you get it? Did you get it? So what does local significance mean?

If I want to communicate. Over my network to another device which is on my network.

On my network. I need the Mac address of that device.

In addition, of course, to the IP address. Did you get your.

Did you get what local significance mean? Didn't get it right.

Clearly, Obamacare is needed only when you want to communicate with another device on your own network.

On your own network, not on a separate network.

One more time, I go. I want to communicate with Google.

I don't need the Mac address of Google Watch.

Mac address. Do I need? I need the address of my router.

Don't call it router by router. Router or router is the.

Try new snake. I'm just teasing you. Don't call it router.

Router. I need the address of my router because he is the one.

By the way, is the router connected to my network? Yes he is.

Otherwise, how am I communicating with him? Did you get it or not?

I need the address of the router. Who will take me there?

Clear a question. That's my router. Me the Mac address of Google rap.

Sorry, of the Google server. No he doesn't. So what does he need?

He need to what? The Mac address of the other router.

The other router. Who needs the Mac address of the Google server?

The router that is connected to the Google server network.

Where the Google separates. Located the router that is connected to the same, uh, to the same network as a Google server.

Mac addresses have local significance only.

Did you get it? Okay. Now, the next question is upon.

Listen to the question. Careful. Premature. All of this are premature.

Actually, I might have made a mistake getting into it, but I want you to get the idea before.

If I don't need the Mac address of the Google server.

Quit my Mac address. Be the same as Google Mac address.

I don't. I'm not going to use. I'm not. I don't need the Mac address of Google Server.

Could my Mac address be the same as his Mac address?

Theoretically speaking, could. But they did not want to get into a hassle that when you move from one network to another network,

you don't have to worry about whether your Mac address is used by another device on that other network.

Changing Mac addresses is not as easy as changing IP addresses.

IP addresses, he adds. Up to what do you change in a Mac address?

You need to open your computer, get to the card, replace it with another card.

That's what we don't want to get into that trouble. We don't want to get into that.

Did you get it or not? Okay, so theoretically speaking, Mac addresses are globally unique, but in actuality.

The manufacture of these cards. They duplicate Mac addresses, but they ship it.

When they ship it, they ship it to customers that are distributed all over the world.

All over the world. Did you follow me on another?

Your Mac address could be the same as a mac address of a device.

In what? And let's say Beijing. What are they?

Same chances of you moving. To what?

To that network. It's almost nonexistent.

They want to make money. So they what? They sometimes they duplicate Mac addresses agents responsibility, as we'll see shortly.

It is the responsibility of the network administrator.

Through what? Through the remote management of the network to figure out if there are any what duplicate Mac addresses on the network.

You cannot have duplicate Mac addresses on the network on the same network on the same.

You cannot clear software. Okay.

Right now we're adding one more time. Uh, remember, software is running on top of what?

On top of the hardware you transmit software to.

What hardware receive hardware to what software?

We'll see that in just a second. Clear software.

IP addresses, by the way, are added in the software.

Uh, Mac addresses in the hardware? Yes.

How big is the huh? How big is the total allowable use?

Um and Mark, again, I am very premature question.

All of these details will study them in detail. But let me answer the gentleman's question.

IP addresses are 32 bit long, 32 bit.

Are you following this off? Mac addresses are 48 bit long, 48 bit long, and the way it is presented, it's different.

IP addresses is represented like this a dot b that c that d.

Every one of these is eight bits, and every eight bit is represented by a decimal digit decimal digit.

So for example you have one 128.

Just an example 125 three.

Okay, just an example. That's an IP address.

This is only for us for human consumption.

Routers do not understand that. Routers need to know what.

Need to look at the binary app. Okay.

Clear. Okay. As long as you ask the question.

IP address. Again premature.

I'm jumping all over the place, but I just need you to get the idea.

Consists of two parts. The net ID.

Do you host ID? This is not a packet.

This is only the what? The advert.

In other words, this is 32 bit. Did you get it?

What is the net I.D.? Net I.D. is the part of the IP address that identify the network to which you are connected to.

To which you are connected to that part is called the net ID.

Net IDs are globally unique.

Which means what? No two networks have the same.

Net ID. No two networks have the same net idea.

Clear. Host ID part. Identify the identify the actual host.

The interface. Actual interface. The host itself.

Did you get it or not? Yes or no. This is assigned by your ISP.

You cannot choose it. This one. You cannot say why I slept yesterday.

And I dreamt of this and that I did. I like it.

I'm going to use it. No you cannot. This is assigned by your ISP.

This is assigned by the local administrator.

Like you, I see you follow me on ISP give you.

I see this and tell them what you decide on the host item.

Clear. So let me ask you a question. See if you can respond to me correctly.

Is it possible we have two devices on different networks, on different networks that have the same host ID?

Possible or not possible. Possible. Are you following me or not?

Why? Because they have different white neck I.D.

IP addresses have to be globally unique.

I want you to think about the IP address the same way as you think about your mailing address.

Your mailing address. You follow me on.

Can your mailing address be duplicated? You cannot.

Why? The mailman will say. Huh? What do I do?

I take it to hero. To you. Did you get it or not? When you move.

Let's assume you moved from L.A. Uh, excuse me.

To New York. Do you need to change your mailing address?

Yes. You do. In the same way, you need to change your IP address.

I want you to think about Mac addresses.

I'm not sure all of you have that yet or not. I.

I want you to think about your Mac addresses the same way as you think about your Social security number.

Are you familiar with sorts of? Most of you might not have it yet.

Once you got the job, you need to get a Social Security number.

If I moved to New York right now, how do I change my Social Security number?

No, I take it with me. That's the Mac address. Did you get it?

Okay, if you tell me your Social Security number, I will not be able to tell which state you are.

Will I, if you give me just your Social Security number, I will not know where you live in California or New York, or I will not be able to clear.

Oh, good. I don't think I finished answering your question.

Did you? Andrew? So the IP address. IP addresses are globally unique.

I am talking about public IP addresses. You might say, what is there other than public IP?

What is there is a private IP addresses.

Private IP addresses are not allowed to be used across the public internet.

They are not allowed to be used because the routers do not know where they are.

Where are they used? They are used within your own private network.

If you check that. By the way, this weekend there is no homework.

But I will send you a utility set so that you learn a lot about your computer.

What is your Mac address? What is your IP address?

Some what? Some fun tools to play with. It's not a homework, but you will learn a lot of your.

How many of you on the router on your router?

In other words, the router does not belong to the to the apartment manager or whatever.

It's your own router. You will be able to access your router.

Look at what which devices are connected to this router.

You will also be able to figure out if there is an unauthorized user who is what, who is using your Wi-Fi network.

You will see from the address. You will see what I don't have that device in my in my home, which is the bike.

Then you go and look at your neighbor, your neighbor.

It's using your wife. But if you don't have if you are not the owner of the router, it's difficult to do that.

But if you are an owner, you can do that. And I will show you how to do that.

I will send you all the details this weekend. Pleased to offer.

Private IP addresses are not unique.

Your private IP address and or private IP address could be the same.

As long as you are not on the same network.

As long as you. In other words, as long as you are not roommate. You follow me or not?

Your private IP address at home. Your private IP address at home.

As long as you are not roommate. Could be the same.

And most probably it is just. But they cannot leave.

What? They cannot leave. Your private network.

Now watching you might be inquiring about. So if I have a private IP address.

How am I going to communicate with the Google server?

Google server as a public IP address. How?

How about we will study that? Let's not jump to conclusions.

There is a piece of software which stands for what not and not.

This stands for what network address? Translator will translate a private IP address to a public IP address.

What we're saying is that shortly. Let's get back to your other part of the question.

Mac addresses. At 48.

Whitlock. And the way they are. What identified is by what a.

D. E.f. G h uh.

Help me. What? H after h h I.

J. J j k l.

Each one of these. Each one of them is four bits long, and each one of them is represented by X, and that's a model.

Are you familiar with that said? What is hexadecimal?

Hexadecimal? It's what, 0 to 9 and then what? Abcdef.

Each one four bit long. So four bit four bit 888888 48.

And they are separated by color rather than by dot.

Did you get it. So if you check your Mac address at home you will see what you will see.

Something like this. Just an example. Three.

B1. Two four.

Six three. D1.

C5. Just an example. Did you get it?

That's a macadam. It's a flat. It's a flat address.

That's not. Tell me which network you are connected to.

Are you at UIC or something? But if you give me your IP address, not a private one.

Private one doesn't mean anything. If you give me a public IP address, I will be able to tell.

Which network are you connected to? Of course not.

Immediately. I need to watch. Go, go. Okay. I do not memorize this.

Yes, sir. Raise your voice. Raise your voice, please.

That means I can. Identify what?

No. You can identify the one through the ID of the device, but not the actual demand.

It's just a number. You follow me on, not just a number.

Now, the router at home. If you own your, uh.

If you, uh, if you own your router at home, you will see that once you access the router page,

it will identify what type of device you are connecting.

And it's connected to the router, whether it's for example, smartphone or PC or something like that.

Just a number. You follow me on right now.

Please be patient. We are going to discuss it in detail.

Please be patient. Clear out. Good. Now, how do we classify networks?

Let's start with the easy one first. Classification.

Based on the coverage. Based on the coverage.

We have a LAN, which is a local area network.

We have a one wide area network. Depends on the coverage.

Clear here. Limited geographical area.

Wide geographical area. We have others.

Man. No. Woman. Only man. Man.

Metropolitan area network. You look at downtown L.A.

Downtown L.A. is a huge metropolitan area.

You are not going to be able to cover it with a local area network.

Local area network. We are talking about you on a home or what?

Or a classroom and so on and so forth in that business, so on and so forth.

I hear it's bigger, but it's not as big as what a wide area network.

They call it metropolitan area network than personal area network.

These are devices that you wear on your watch on.

For example, your what are you following are not earphone types.

What is referred to as what Bluetooth type devices?

Are you familiar with the Bluetooth Bluetooth device? Oh, it is very small.

And so on and so forth. Home networks. This is what you have at home.

Clear. So it's based on the coverage. More important to me is this one.

But let's start with this one. First one. This one. Classified.

Network is classified as a switch network or a shared or broadcast networks.

Clear. Let's, uh, leave this one till next week.

Let's start with this one. Try to understand it a little bit in detail.

I want you to see. This and look at it and tell me if it's a local area network.

We are talking about an office corridor.

These are two corridors. These are my office.

Your office? His office is opposite it. They are connected on a cable.

This is a cable serving. By the way, this is how local area network started.

Ethernet came. Which came first? Ethernet or Wi-Fi?

Internet came way before white, but clear. This is what they do.

They have PCs originally, by the way. What was the model?

The model was what? Mainframe. What? You do have a super and super computing device.

We referred to it as mainframe. And all the terminals are what?

Dump terminals? Dumb dump terminals.

They cannot do any processing on their own.

They all depend on the mainframe. Now, I'm not sure if you have seen a mainframe, but maybe in the movie and mainframe.

Is it small or big? Huge.

In other words, it's like you cannot carry. The writer.

IBM was the leader of the mainframe computer,

but they realized very quickly that their model is not going to be what is is not going to be sustainable.

People were looking for what smaller but more powerful, faster devices and so on, faster machines and so on.

So. Okay, how about this one? I want to introduce you to a new terminology which is called what backbone.

Where? It's my backbone. This is my backbone. If it breaks if my backbone breaks I go what do I have.

How many local area networks do we have for local area networks?

Yes, but they are interconnected. Via what? Backbone.

Which means what they share. What they share. Information and traffic between each other.

Now, if the backbone fails, if the backbone fails, are they still a standalone networks?

Standalone? In other words, by themselves, do they function by themselves?

Yes they do, but they cannot. What? They cannot share information with each other because they tend not to connect.

Now. Let me stop here for just a second. Do you see this one?

This is called ring topology. A ring ring ring and the nodes are connected to the ring.

This is a what about apology dress?

We refer to it as a what a bust apology, but we'll talk about the apology shortly.

Clear. So of clear. Chopper. That's a local area network.

Now let's look at a specific local area network.

Because I want to introduce you to another device which is called up.

Notice by the way, up. Around. Let's see what is the difference between them up and or out.

We have a network. How many devices? One. Two.

Three. Four. Five. Six. Seven. Eight. I decided to want to interconnect them to create a network.

This is how I create. I use a device which is called a what?

Up. Uh, hub. Again, that's a premature detail.

Later. Uh, how is that dumb device?

He cannot recognize an IP address.

He cannot recognize a Mac address.

He doesn't know the meaning of an address.

He doesn't know. To him, everything looks like a what?

A zero and a one. Did you follow me?

Did you get it? He doesn't know the IP address. He doesn't understand.

What is the Mac address? He is a purely physical layer device.

So what does that mean? Listen to me. Suppose this one wants to disappear in a circle.

Suppose this one has a document to print. He is going to send a request to the printer.

Clear. Let's see what the Hubble do. Let's see what the Hubble do.

The hub doesn't know. By the way, what does he need?

He need two set of addresses. Let's see. Source IP address.

Destination IP address. What else?

Source. Mac address. Destination Mac address.

They are on the same network. Did you get it?

Did you get it? Uh, hub doesn't understand it.

He doesn't know. He doesn't know where the destination is.

What does the hub do? He forward to this one.

To this one. To this one. To this one. To this one.

To this one. To this one. What is he saying?

Verbally? Verbally? What is the hub is saying?

I don't know where this one is going to. I'm going to want to send it to everybody and let them wait.

Let them decide whether this one is blessing to them or not.

Clear so far. No response. Clean so far.

Okay, forget about the advert for a second. I want you to concentrate on this.

This one receives the bits. Now, remember what I told you a moment ago when you received.

It's. What? Hardware? Two software.

He receives the bits, the zeros and the ones.

He put them back together to create what is referred to as a brain.

Clear the hardware free. In the hardware frame.

Remember, there is a neck guard here.

He will see the destination Mac address, and he will realize that the destination Mac address does not match his own Mac address.

Did you lose me? Yes you did. Let's repeat it one more time.

What did I tell you about the Mac address a moment ago?

On a given network, all the devices connected to that network must have a different Mac address.

They cannot have the same what Mac address. They cannot have the same Mac address.

So one more time. Hub does not understand addresses.

He only understand what zeros and ones.

He received the zeros and ones from here. He sent it to everyone.

Concentrate on this one. He received the base.

He put them together. Those bets. I would show you how.

Just an overview. He will put the base together.

And he will look at the Mac address. Which Mac address?

Destination Mac address. He will see the destination Mac address.

That's not match his own Mac address.

That's not. Which means what? This is not destined to him.

He's an upset. Did you get it? Interrupted.

Means what? No further protection. No further.

Robert ignored. Question.

Question for you. Does he see the IP address?

Does this one see the IP address? No, he doesn't remember which one comes first.

When you are receiving which address comes first?

The Mac address comes first when you are transmitting.

Which comes first? IP address when you are transmitting software to what hardware?

When you are receiving hardware to what software?

So when you are receiving which adverts you will see first, you will see the Mac address.

Once there is no match, this is not for you.

Ignore it. Same thing with this one. Same thing with this one.

And so on and so forth. This one receives a bit the hydrogen one.

He puts it together. Here is a destination Mac address.

What does he see? Not just his own. He knows that that's into it.

He set the frame. He gets the packet. He look at IP addresses and so on and so forth.

So on and so forth. Did you get it? Yes or no?

Oh, well, the router receives a batch. Well, he sent it to.

By the way, where does this one going to go? To the ISP.

To another router. Another router who does not belong to you.

The other router is where the ISP. Well, he sent it to the ISP.

No he wasn't. No, he will not. Clear.

Clear. Question. Premature question.

First of all, did you want to show us how the hub works? Hub will say what?

Whatever I receive, I'm going to send it to all of my ports.

How many ports does he have? One. Two. Three. Four. Five.

Six. Seven. Eight. Eight. Port. How many ports does he send it to?

Seven. He does not send it to the same port where it came.

Did you get it or not? Does not make sense. Please offer now two premature questions for you.

Premature? Their IP addresses.

Everyone have an IP address. Their IP addresses.

Do they have something in common? What is it?

That they have the same net ID? Why?

Because they belong to the same network.

Did you get it? But do they have the same host ID? They don't have the same host right now.

When you see the utilities, I will send you.

I want you to check your IP address, and I want you to check the IP address of your router on the private network.

On the private network. You will see they have to wait the same idea.

Otherwise you are not able to communicate with the router at all.

If you come and tell me that I told I'm not able to access the rest of the world.

Now, I don't know what the problem is. I'm not a magician.

But I will tell you what is the first thing that you need to do? I will call, I tell you what.

Check the IP address of your router. Make sure your router is located on white on the same network as you are.

Otherwise, you are not able to communicate with me. Did you get it?

Did you get it? Nope. Does this have an IP address?

No. Does he have a mac address? No. He has a card, but he does not have a mac address.

He does have electronics. Clear. Oh.

Premature question. Can I remove the router and attach the hub directly to the ISP?

The ISP will give you a phone call very quickly.

They tell you why you are dumping all of your junk on us.

This does not recognize the print network. Uh, um, it's a dumb device.

Now, you might say, where do we use up? You use a hub when you want to interconnect 3 or 4 networks at home.

Uh, by the way, is a cheap device. You can get a hub for five bucks.

Did you follow me on? You cannot connect a hub directly to the whacked directly to the ISP.

Clear so far. No response. Clear up.

Oh, yeah. I want you to see this, and I want you to see this.

What did I do? I had a place up this hub.

What? Did I replace it by a switch?

Now, you might tell me, how does this switch differ up?

And how does it differ than a router? Of course.

Premature question. We'll study it in detail, but for the time being a switch can recognize Mac addresses, but he cannot recognize what IP addresses.

He cannot. So in other words, think about the switch at sitting way between the hub and the what.

The router hub does not recognize any address router recognize both.

Did I mention that I don't think I mentioned that router.

Recognize what Mac addresses and what.

IP addresses, most of them. Here I can ask a switch.

Recognize only what Mac addresses.

Inside the switch there is a database. Every device.

Remember, by the way, a question, by the way. How many networks do we have here?

One network. This is another one. What? Is there something common in the IP addresses?

What is it? I know that I is the same. Okay, keep that in mind.

This which nodes the Mac addresses of every one of these.

So when he is sending to this one.

The hub. Oh, I said the hub. I'm sorry. This which will establish a physical connection.

To that host only. Which means what?

All of these devices will not receive.

The bits will not receive the bits. Did you get?

No. It's fine. Did you get it? He will not. They will not receive the bet.

Only the destination. What received the pitch? Is that better or worse than up?

Much better. Why? You are wasting the resources of these devices if the bits are not destined to them.

If the message is not centered. Clear.

Okay, now, one more premature question. Replace this hub by a switch.

You follow me so far? Can I connect the switch directly to the ISP?

The answer to that is what? No I cannot. Watch The Wire.

There is. There is no distinguishing between this network and this network, this which cannot distinguish between them,

because this which cannot distinguish between what IP addresses.

He does not understand what an IP address is. He only knows what is a mac address.

So what is the problem? Suppose he wants to broadcast a message to all the devices in this network.

If you replace the router and you connect the switch directly to the ISP, that switch will send the broadcast to the ISP.

Did you get it? You get a phone call from the ISP.

Hey, what are you doing? You cannot connect the switch to us.

Clear why, which does not recognize what IP addresses.

He only recognize what addresses. We need a router.

Why a router is able to distinguish between different networks.

Latest of. No worries. Fine. It's over.

Oh. Premature. Premature question. I want you to see this.

R stands for what router. And these are a.

Be. See. Answer the following question.

How many networks do you see? Three networks.

And a router. Every port constitute a what?

And network. This again premature. We will study it later.

Every port of a router constitute a what?

A separate network. Uh, you lost me here.

Let's not go any further because you are losing here.

We'll get to that later. Let's not to worry about Metropolitan area Network.

Different local area networks connected via perplexity network.

Mayors office. Federal buildings, health systems, immigration offices and so on.

So far. What is this wide area network covers?

What? Not sure. Only networks can go to Europe and so on.

So for all of these, by the way. On what? Under what?

Under the ocean fibers. They extend fibers under the Atlantic Ocean or the Pacific Ocean and so on.

And so you follow me on. But it's a wide yet and clear.

How about this one? This your home network? I ran out of time.

Okay, let's let's start a little bit. What do we have?

This is you and your roommate. This is Mom and Pop.

All people. They are not going to carry what I smartphones.

I they can barely see the screen. They are on a desktop.

Answer me the following question. Premature question.

How many networks do you see inside? Inside your home.

This is your home. How many networks do you see? Three networks.

One of them is a white fi. That's a shared port.

That's a dedicated port. Do you see this one? Every dedicated port constitutes a network.

That's a network. That's a network. That's a network.

Which means what? Can this one send the message to this one?

Yes he can. But it has to go through a white has to go through the router.

Did you get it or not? Did you get it or not? Okay, I.

I explained to you this shortly. That router has a firewall.

Firewall is a security device that prevents outside penetration into your private network.

It's a private network I cannot access in addition to the firewall it has and not what is in fact, network address translator.

Translating a what private IP addresses into public IP address.

This. Answer me the following question. Before I run out of time, is this a public IP address or a private IP address?

This interface, by the way. How many IP addresses does the router has?

Look at this diagram and tell me, how many IP addresses does he have for IP addresses?

Why? How many interfaces he has for interfaces for every interface.

You need an IP address. Clear. Clear.

Private. Private. Private. Public.

Why? Why is this one public? It's going to connect to the public network.

I ran out of time. Next time, we'll continue with the. I'm.

I know I'm jumping all over. All over the place, but are you following me?

Are you following me so far? Huh? Okay, good.

I will see you next week. Please. When I send you the tools, please dedicate some time to.

You will learn a little bit about your machine. Oh.

